We are now at module number seven, script writing
and a VD average viewer duration optimization,
which is just about writing scripts
that keep viewers watching.
Pretty simple stuff. Now,
the master outline method
is the first thing I wanna talk about.
Everything in script writing is about copying what works.
Don't be creative, be strategic. Okay?
So number one, just analyze competitor outlier videos.
And we talked about outlier videos before.
Remember, it's not their most popular
video, it's not their latest video.
It's one you sort by latest.
You look at their average views per video
and the one that just sticks out
that has a lot more views than the rest, like one, one video
that has a lot of views as kind of sandwiched by ones
that are average view count for that channel.
That's the outlier video.
So analyze competitor outliers
and read the scripts of every single outlier video on their
channel from your competitors.
So in this case, you really could sort by, uh, popular, uh,
especially if you're only looking at channels
that are within three months of age,
because then the videos won't be that old.
So you really could just read their most popular scripts.
Uh, and if you can't find scripts, watch
and take detailed notes on the structure.
So really what you should be doing is you should just
download the script to their video.
You could go to a YouTube transcript, download,
or just search a yt space transcript space downloader,
and you'll find one, you can copy
and paste the, the YouTube video.
And most of these transcript downloaders
actually give you timestamps as well.
So you can just read their scripts.
So what you wanna do is you wanna create detailed outlines.
So write out the outline of every outlier.
So for example, if the intro of the video is 27 seconds,
that's a pretty long intro.
This is just random numbers that came up
with for examples, right?
So you're gonna write down intro is zero to 21 seconds.
Topic one, they covered this, this, and this,
and that occurs from 27 seconds to six 60.
Uh, they, you know, tell the viewers
to subscribe at exactly 60 seconds.
Between 60 seconds to two minutes is topic two,
but you wanna be really specific.
Like this should take you, uh, a fat minute to be honest.
It, it should take you a little bit of time
to write out the, uh, this like outline for the script.
Now what you wanna do is you wanna build
your master outline.
So what you wanna do, now, let's say you found five
or six, for example,
let's say you found five outliers from
the channel that you're copying.
Let's say there's two more competitors
and each of those had three outliers.
So realistically, you should do this for all
of the competitors, all of their outlier videos.
So now you have 11 different ones.
So let's say you have 11 different detailed outlines
that took you an hour to make each, you spend 11 hours.
I mean, I don't think that's a crazy ask.
If you're trying to make a hundred thousand dollars a month
here, then you wanna just build your master outline.
So kind of just read through all of them
and find, uh, like an average.
So on average, even though like the intro is 27 seconds on
this one, 30 seconds on this 1, 24 seconds on this one, uh,
the median number, like the most kind
of like common middle number for that intro is,
you know, 27.
And then topic one is this, this, this, this.
So you kind of wanna read through all of your outlines
that you created
and you wanna build your master outline. So just combine
All competitor outlines
that you created into one master template,
and that's gonna become your blueprint.
Okay? Now the thing is, is if you're using ai,
if you're using Tube gen, for example,
which everybody watching this should have access
to tube gen, I believe you don't necessarily
need to do all of this.
Um, I definitely think, I think it helps so
that you can understand exactly
what your video should look like
and kind of read through your own scripts
and make sure that like if you do this
and you build your master outline
and you generate AI scripts, then you'll be able
to just very quickly like go through your script
and go through the master outline
and make any fixes if necessary,
or just kind of verify that everything looks good.
Um, but just, just in general, when you paste in, uh,
YouTube links into tube gen
or you have a style, it's already kind of gonna do all
of this in the back and this is
pretty much what Tube gen's doing.
To be honest with you. This is just a manual way to do it.
This is, uh, if you're doing like completely AI scripts
and whatnot, this isn't necessary for you to do,
but I definitely wouldn't say that it would hurt for you
to understand like what, what your own video structure is.
Um, and then it would just be easier to kind
of identify why the A VD is
what it is once you put out video.
So definitely wouldn't hurt. It's a good suggestion.
Now here's some script killers that tank your A VD.
Now if you're in the inner circle though,
we're gonna have two things for you.
Number one, you're gonna have access to our outline creator,
where you can just paste in YouTube videos
and we will create the outline for you
and then also the master outline
where we'll average this together.
So as long as you just give us your niche
and your competitor links,
we will do this for you pretty much.
So if you're in the inner circle,
you'll have access to that.
So then instead of manually doing this, you can just send it
to us and our team will get it done.
Now, let's go over some script killers.
What actually tanks a VD?
Now the biggest script mistakes, number one,
slow intros taking too long to get
to the point people press on the video
and wanna get right into the action.
So taking too long to get to the point is bad.
The beginning has the highest click off
rate in almost every niche.
I mean, not almost every niche,
this should say in every niche, like 99.999
with a hundred nines of niches are, uh,
are gonna have the click off rate being the highest in the
beginning because you know you're gonna start at a hundred
percent at zero seconds
because people clicked off the video.
And then a ton of people are gonna click off in the
beginning until you get to the point.
So you only want your intro to cover what's necessary
for the viewer to
understand what's gonna happen in the video.
If if your intro's not helping with that,
then you don't even need an intro.
A lot of channels don't need an intro.
Like if you're doing top 10 coolest places on earth,
your video could just start off, number one, this place,
blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
And then after you know, you get
through that, it's number two.
So there's not even an intro. Unnecessary intros.
Many niches don't even need intros.
Like I said, just get to the content.
You only need an intro if it's necessary
to help the viewer understand what's going on.
Because if you, the viewer doesn't understand what's going
on, they need pre-con and
they're gonna click off the video later.
So it is important to have an intro in that case, uh,
and you'll understand based on your
competitors, just see what they're doing.
And if you kind of go through the master outline method, uh,
this is won't be confusing once you get to that point.
And this is why you should watch
like these modules multiple times
Because once you get to that point,
you could always come back to this and re-watch this, right?
Key mind, these are recorded, these will be here,
you have access to this, right?
So once you're at this point, you could just come back
to this area or open your notebook
where you're taking notes like you should be
and then open this, re-watch it, maybe add more notes, uh,
and write, okay, for my specific
niche to this, this, this, right?
Like a lot of this stuff might like, like
with throughout all these modules,
keep in mind we're only on module seven out of 20.
There's a lot of stuff to go over.
So if you're a little confused right now,
keep in mind you know, the stuff's gonna be here.
Your notes that you're taking are gonna be there.
Now outros are outdated, completely unnecessary.
You should have the video
and abruptly so the viewers don't have time
to realize they should click off.
And this applies to just about every niche.
You don't need an outro, it's gonna kill your A VD.
I have so many examples of looking at people's charts.
Were were in a call, they're show they want me
to look at their analytics and I see their a VD chart
and at the end, the last like 10 seconds, they had an outro
and boom, everyone and their mom is clicking off the video.
At that point, you know, it's really important
that you don't have an outro.
You should make your video ideally like watch the last
minute of your video and you shouldn't be able to, to guess.
Obviously it's your video, but you
know, you, you should have that feeling.
Put yourself in the shoes of the viewer.
You need to be able to do this in a lot of cases.
But watch the last minute of your video
and video should just abruptly end
and it should abruptly end with a few things in mind.
It shouldn't feel like abruptly end like in the middle
of the sentence or like cut off randomly.
It should just feel like, like let's say we have like,
like 10 coolest places in the world and the video starts.
Let's say you have an intro and it
like, because you need an intro.
In this video we're talking about the 10 coolest places in
the world, specifically places that nobody's ever heard of,
something like that so that you have pre-contact
to the video or something like that.
Uh, and then you do number one, blah, blah, blah,
number two, blah, blah, blah.
And then you're at number 10, blah, blah, blah.
And then it just ends, no thanks for watching.
Or these are the 10 places. Like once,
it's almost like the transition from nine to 10,
how nine ends place,
number nine ends and then you go into 10.
It should be, that's the way 10 ends.
It should feel like they're,
the video is almost like gonna have a number 11,
but then it doesn't, right?
Uh, and that way the viewer watches all the way to the end.
Another thing that is pretty common is actually, uh,
lying about the number in your title.
For example, having the title be
nine coolest places in the world.
And then you actually only do eight in your video.
This is a pretty, uh, common tactic.
And this is because then the viewer's expecting number
nine and then it never comes.
And then yes, they might comment, oh, there was supposed
to be nine, but who cares?
That's not how the YouTube algorithm's gonna view it.
YouTube's not reading your comments.
It's an AI algorithm that it's looking at the A VD,
they see the viewers watch all the way to the end.
This video's gotta be super interesting according
to U YouTube's algorithm
and it's gonna push it to more people, right?
So we don't care about the comments.
Um, I don't reply to comments.
You can reply to comments if you want.
Like stuff like that is just like super irrelevant stuff,
like your comment amount, your light count, like all
that stuff doesn't really do anything.
Uh, the one thing is though, obviously if people are
commenting, they're probably watching the video
in the background while commenting.
So, you know, getting comments, uh,
isn't gonna hurt your A, B, D and getting likes and stuff.
That's not gonna hurt all of this stuff, like interaction
with your video, your
video's probably playing in the background.
So if somebody goes
To go, go like the video for
whatever reason, well guess what?
They're probably increasing your a VD.
Same thing with the comments, but like the actual number
of likes and comments, that's not what's gonna
trigger the algorithm.
It's the fact that it's increasing your a VD
and this one is probably,
I wouldn't say this is necessarily the most important
biggest script mistake to, to review,
but I'd say it's like the most common
thing I see people doing.
Um, and it's like, don't pad your videos.
And what I mean by that is pack as much value into
as little time as possible.
However long it is, is however long it is.
The thing is, YouTube in general
prioritizes prioritizes pushing out longer videos
because the process of a viewer being on a shorter video
and then the video ending
and then pressing on the next video, the, the truth is, is
that it's simply just pretty obvious to understand this,
that, you know, the highest chance of a viewer clicking off
of YouTube and just closing the app is not in the
middle of them watching a video.
It's once they're done a video.
So the longer the video is, the higher chance, uh,
the lower the chances, sorry, that the viewer clicks off
of the YouTube website or the YouTube app on their phone.
So YouTube actually likes pushing out to longer videos more.
Um, and they're more lenient
with having a lower a VD on on longer videos
because of that, pretty much it's, it's better
for YouTube would rather, uh, have the chance
of somebody watching one hour,
a one hour long video than watching six,
10 minute videos in a row.
Like I'm sure realistically anybody watching this,
you typically, like if you've watched an hour long video on
YouTube, there's a good chance
you might watch it all the way through.
But how often are you really watching six,
10 minute long videos in a row?
Like you might click off on like three
or four if you're done with YouTube.
And in that case, you're actually spending less time on the
app, even though you're watching way more videos.
A lot of people will go ahead and try
and make their videos longer to take advantage of this,
but then their videos become boring
'cause they're like stretching stuff out,
adding filler segments, stuff like that.
And then your a BD just becomes so low to, to the point
where even though, uh, YouTube's going to allow
for some extra room, I guess, of having a lower a BD,
you made your video so boring by adding stuff that the video
just doesn't perform well.
Now. So the goal is yes, make it as long
as possible typically, but with actual value.
Like, like you should.
Uh, for example, if you're doing coolest places, instead
of doing 10 coolest places,
and let's say that's a 10 minute video, instead
of doing 10 coolest places, just adding more info about each
place and making each place more boring of a thing
to watch then, uh, making
and it's gonna become a 20 minute video.
Instead just do 20 coolest places
and then you'll have a 20 minute video, uh,
or maybe even it's packed down to 18 minutes
because you wanna make it as action packed as possible.
You need your intro, uh, video to be interesting.
Like the viewer's eyes need to be glued to the screen.
If it's like boring and they're like, oh, you know, there's,
there's filler stuff, then they're clicking off, right?
So that's what I mean, don't pad the videos pack
as much valuable into as little time.
So you actually wanna make your video as short as possible,
but you know, that might be going against what I'm saying
where you should make it long as long as possible.
But what I mean by that is you should add
as much information as you can.
And then once you have that set amount of information,
put it in as little time as possible.
So if you wanna make your video long,
let's say we're doing 50 coolest places in the world,
but we wanna action pack it,
and that's like a 30 minute long video versus right,
if I was saying 10 coolest places
and then each place is a minute long,
that's a 10 minute video, then theoretically 50 coolest
should be a 50 minute video.
But you know, just for this example, we're gonna try
and pack it down to 30 minutes if possible
and take out any filler stuff that's unnecessary
and that'll probably have a better a VD Not saying
that like you should just like speed through,
I'm just giving like examples.
You don't wanna add filler stuff, don't like purposefully,
uh, cut stuff out, like keep all the important stuff
and don't, just don't add filler pretty much.
Now the video length guide aim to be at minimum as long
as your competitor's average outlier videos.
So if your competitor competitor has three outlier videos,
one's 10 minutes long, one's 15 minutes long,
one's like 13 minutes long, then we know, okay,
their average outlier video is 13 minutes long.
Typically, you'll see though in most niches
that their outlier videos are, are
around the same length normally.
Uh, and you'll just have like three 13 minute long videos.
Uh, and that's more common than seeing like 10, 15, 13,
but either way is possible obviously, so aim
to be at minimum as long
as your competitors average outlier videos.
So YouTube is more lenient
with lower percent a VD on longer videos, like I said,
and that's because total watch time is still high.
Don't artificially extend it. Like I said, don't pad it.
This makes videos boring and people click off.
So if our competitor, we, we understand
that their average outlier is 13 minutes long, we need
to figure out how to have as much information in our video
where it would be 13 minutes without
adding any extra padding.
And you can make it longer by adding even more information
and making it longer than 13 minutes.
But we should aim to have at least 13 minutes
and not doing that by forcing every day,
like not making a 10 minute video
and then realizing, oh, we need it to be 13 minutes
and then make adding a filler stuff.
If it's 10 minutes and it's,
and nothing you can do, just upload it 10 minutes.
Don't add padding.
Like I said, we should just aim to add more information,
okay, like a, a, a good, uh, I guess a better way
to explain it in a lot of cases would be if you have a 10
minute video and you want it to be 13 minutes, don't go in
and make each section longer.
Just add more sections so
that the video's longer add more to the end of the video.
For example, and this should be easy
'cause you shouldn't have an outro, so it should feel like,
it should always feel like there's more coming anyways.
Now here's some, uh, a VD benchmarks by video link.
These are general guidelines.
Always compare to your niche competitors.
And this is what I'll, I'll kind
of go over the numbers first and then it go back to this.
'cause this is super important.
Don't forget this, write this down right here.
But let me, uh, make sure you guys can see this.
Let's say we have an eight minute video,
which our video should minimum be eight minutes long
by the way, because that's where mineral ads come into play.
You're eight, uh, like a seven minute 59 second video,
and then you have the same video just with one second
of black screen at the end.
Even though you know you're adding black screen,
which isn't a great idea, this is just an example,
but just by adding that extra second
and same video, you're gonna instantly increase
how much money you're making per thousand views,
which is called your R-P-M-R-P-M just means
how many dollars are you making per 1000 views.
So if it's $3 per thousand views
And you, you get 10,000 views, your RPMs $3
and you made $30, right?
So in this case, this is just generalized from my experience
based on almost every niche
or like an average of most niches.
But like I said, we're gonna go back to this right
after for an eight minute video,
which should be the minimum your video should ever be.
45% is good.
So we're aiming for 45% A VD and 50% is great.
So 45% gives you like the, the,
the good chance to get pushed out.
Obviously it's possible to get a little bit less than this
and still have your video do well,
but we're aiming for 45 if we, if we wanna expect it
to do good, we need 45%.
A VD 50% is great.
Like if you're getting 50% a VD,
then your video should blow up in most
cases assuming, right?
Keep in mind we need to go back to the push order.
This is why the push order is so important.
We need a few thousand views for this to even be relevant
because the first thing YouTube looks at
to give you your first few hundred views is the title then
to give you your first th a few thousand views is the CTR.
And then once to push your video to an even bigger audience,
that's when they look at your A VD.
So don't have 300 views on your video
and be like, oh, I have a 60% a VD on this eight minute
video and expect it to do good
because YouTube's not even really looking at your A VD
obviously it's taken into consideration a little
bit, really not much.
Like that's why there's a push order
and I figured this out by just testing enough times.
Next we got a 15 minute video.
Obviously there's ranges in between here, um,
but 15 minute video, anything in
between you should probably be aiming
for closer to the stats here.
Obviously you have like a 14 minute video,
45% would be pretty dang good,
but let's just assume anywhere in
between we're going to the left one.
So anywhere between 15
and 30 we're aiming for what the 15 minute one is.
But anyways, with 15 minutes, 40% is good.
Uh, 45% is great, 30 minutes, 35% is good,
40% is great an hour, 30% is good, 35% is great.
Two hours, 25% is good, 30% is great.
And like I said, in general,
always compare to your niche competitors.
So these are generalized if you don't have any ideas to
what your niche's a, b, D looks like.
But let's say you're in a niche
where all the videos are 15 minutes long, for example,
and your competitors, uh, are doing really well
and they get 35% a VD on a video.
If you even get like 38% a VD on a video,
your video's gonna get pushed
out more than your competitors.
'cause it's simply you're having a better a VD in a niche in
the niche than your competitors.
These are just generalized numbers,
but realistically the way YouTube is gonna go about is
by comparing it to the competitors in the niche.
But in most cases, honestly,
these numbers are pretty accurate.
So like I said, if you don't know,
you can just reference these.
So I already touched on this a little bit,
but why longer videos win?
YouTube is more lenient
with lower a VD percentages on longer videos
because viewers still watch more total minutes.
AKA, they're watching more ads, a two hour video
with a 30% A VD equals 36 minutes watched, which is five
to 15 ads viewed.
And right. If we compare this to an eight minute video
with a 50% a VD, that's four minutes,
even an eight minute video with a hundred percent A VD,
Which, which by the way is literally impossible ju
but just to com just to show you what I'm saying,
an eight minute video with a hundred percent
A VD is eight minutes.
Watched a two hour long video
with 30% A VD is 36 minutes watched,
which is like almost five times more.
So let's go over some script writing tools.
Once you have your master outline,
use these methods to write your script.
Like I said before, most of you guys
or just all you guys should have access to tube gen.
So, um, use tube gen.
Use a custom trained style based on your
niche to write your scripts.
You can also use AI plus master outline.
So pace your script plus master outline into AI
and have it check the alignment, right?
So this is something you can do. You could even write your,
uh, script with tube gen,
then use AI past a script plus your master outline
that you created and have it check like is the script
following this master outline.
If you're using tube gen, it should,
so you don't really need to do this,
but if you're writing your script another way
or you have a script writer do this, uh,
or manually, like write your script using the master
outline as your template.
And this is pretty much just how you're going
to write your scripts and get
your scripts made for your video.
That's gonna be it for module seven,
which is the script writing section.
Hopefully you guys enjoyed, we're gonna go over
to the next inner circle section, which is number eight.
So if you guys are not in the inner
circle, I'll see you in module nine.
See it.